---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Mek's Presentation and Small Contributions
---

<!-- Make your blog post for the week. Comment on the discussion with Mek.
Comment on your small contributions: how are things going, what types of contributions were you able to make? what are the biggest challenges? which contribution are you most proud of? -->

This week the university had a day off on Monday. On Wednesday we had a invited talk by [Mek Karpeles](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mekarpeles/) from [Internet Archive](https://archive.org/)/[Open Library](https://openlibrary.org/). After class, I worked on small contributions that are either coding or non-coding.

<!--more-->

During Mek Karpeles' talk on Open Library this week, I was struck by the passion and dedication of the team working on the project. Despite facing a lawsuit, they continue to strive towards their mission of making books and information accessible to everyone. This really touched me! It was also interesting to learn about the copyright and reproduction laws that govern the borrowing of digital books and how Open Library navigates these laws. Additionally, I learned about the Wayback Machine and how it preserved digital information that may become unavailable in the future. Overall, it is clear that the Open Library team is committed to creating a digital library that emulates the traditional borrowing experience and I think this mission is noble and necessary. Mek's welcoming and encouraging attitude towards new contributors was also inspiring and I'm considering ways to get involved in the project. Overall, I think the Open Library is a powerful example of the potential of open source projects to make a positive impact on the world.

Last week I also started to do some small contributions. For the non-coding part, I did several-thousand character modification on three different Wikepedia pages. The modification includes updated outdated information (such as rankings, descriptions) and fixing broken reference links. Other than that, I checked through the OSSD course website, figuring out that there is still an open issue "Missing book cover in _config.yml" which is not solved. I inspected the webpage and went into the files, then located the position where this error occurs.Then I tried to claim the issue. I still haven't received the further instruction from professor by now, but I will try my best to work more on the coding contributions and try to be more familiar with the process.

05:11 p.m. EST

Feb 27, 2023

New York, NY