---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Browser Add-on Presentations and Project Evaluation Activity
---

<!-- Make your blog post for the week
comment about your group work on the browser extension, did you learn anything about yourself and how you are able to work with others?
describe your own contributions to your team's efforts of building your browser extension
comment on new things you learned (tools, features of tools that you were not familiar with, etc) or learned about yourself (skills you realized you have, team work preferences and style, etc.)
comment on other teams presentations and their projects, did you have any favorites? -->

This week all of our groups presented their Firefox add-on projects in class. And additionally, after that we were assigned to a new group and started the project evaluation activity.

<!--more-->

For the Firefox add-on project, my own contribution (partially described in last week blog) is mainly exploring new features by reading through documentations and having discussion with others, as well as recording group activity on EdStem, creating Code of Conduct file, and also Discord channel.

This is the first time that I get to know more about git and github. Previously I only know the "commit and push" button in VS Code, but now I've learnt how to create my own branch, how to switch the branch I'm currently at, how to make a pull request through GitHub, and how to accept & merge that into the main branch. I've learnt the fundamental workflow of this kind of design and group collaboration.

After presentation, I looked back to the brower extension group work, and realized that I started to gradually build my ability to collaborate with others. For my past projects, most of them were done by myself so that I'm lack of collaboration experience. However, this course proides me a chance to make up that weakness.

Actually, I had a second-round behavioral interview this Thursday. And during that I was asked to describe more about my experience of working in groups. I used this add-on project as an example and described my experience as well as the collaboration process that I'm now familiar with. This really helped me a lot!

Other teams' presentations and their projects are all really attractive and their ideas are brilliant. Among them, I think "Always On Time" from Team 2 and "TabColor" from Team 8 share a relative idea with us. If we can work together and combine our features & thoughts, I believe that would be a GREAT add-on project. Other than that, I believe my favorite is "YouTube Interface Customizer" from Team 4. I'm currently using it now since that's really realistically helpful and the cute figures such as capoo and pikachu are so intriguing.

02:57 a.m. EST

Feb 22, 2023

Jersey City, NJ