---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Project Evaluation Activity & Choose the Open Source Project to Work on
time: 02:15 p.m.
date: 2023-03-05
location: New York, NY
---

<!-- Make your blog posts: what are your thoughts about different projects that you have looked at so far? what are you most excited about regarding working on an opens source project? what do you think will be the biggest challenges? how do you plan to overcome them? -->

This week we first continued our discussion about project evaluation as well as the in-class evaluation activity. Then on Thursday we discussed the reasons for selecting project to contribute to, and professor Klukowska also introduced Humanitarian Free and Open Source Software (HFOSS) to us. At the end of the week, each of us picked an open source project and an HFOSS project to do individual evaluation. For my evaluation, I chose [Teammates](https://github.com/ossd-s23/project-evaluation/blob/main/Teammates_evaluation.md) and [Free Code Camp](https://github.com/ossd-s23/project-evaluation/blob/main/FreeCodeCamp_evaluation_5.md). Finally, we completed the project preference form which would be used to form the project groups.

<!--more-->

In class, we discussed multiple aspects to consider when choosing the open source project to work on. Those included:

- my coding abilities
- other skills that are required to understand/contribute
- visibility of the projects and its meaning to me
- what is the project’s impact on me and other people/society
- what kind of thing can I contribute
- did I use it before (because using means knowing what it is supposed to do)
- familiarity with tools and can they be installed on my system
- is the project active

After looking at a lot of different projects so far, I quite agree that all of these are important for making decisions. It's always a hard choice: sometimes I like the project idea but am not familiar with the programming language they use; sometimes I check both issue and PR history thoroughly and notice that the project is no longer active; sometimes the project is only open-source in theory but doesn't welcome outside contributors; sometimes the project is so active but the issue and PR numbers are way larger than the number of resolved ones. In these cases, I'm afraid that my contributions may be unimpressive and therefore overlooked.

Considering all misgivings, I think the biggest challenge is that **I have no experience working in such large projects**. I'm afraid that it would take a significant amount of time for me to understand the code, find bugs, and fix them. I guess that sometimes I'll be overwhelmed and feel headless, but what I can plan to overcome this obstacle is just treat the projects more seriously spend more time on them.

But however hard it is to start my open source path, I'm still excited about it because I've really want try to work collaborately in large projects with so many people from everywhere. I want to experience what's new for me and I believe that my coding & collaborating skill will definitely be hugely improved. Additionally, I'm keen on exchanging ideas with others and learn more technical skill from them. Working on open source projects surely provide me this opportunity to be better.