---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - Lessons Learned and Project Progress
time: 00:36 a.m.
date: 2023-04-17
location: New York, NY
---


This week, we had the pleasure of hosting [Christopher Snider](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/), an esteemed member of the Tidepool team, to speak about their groundbreaking automated insulin dosing app for type 1 diabetics. Tidepool is the first fully interoperable app of its kind, recently cleared by the FDA, and it serves as an excellent example of the importance of open-source in the healthcare industry.

<!--more-->

During his talk, Christopher began by outlining his role at Tidepool and providing an overview of the app's interface and functionality. One of the most notable features of Tidepool is its radical transparency, exemplified by the company's decision to post their full [daily meetings with the FDA](https://www.tidepool.org/documents) on their public website.

This transparency is particularly important when considering the role of open-source software in the healthcare industry. By making their code and processes public, Tidepool can persuade its user its safety. At the same time, it also encourages collaboration and innovation within the community, ultimately leading to better and more effective solutions for patients. As mentioned in [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/), "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.". Since many of the programmers are theirselves the users, they do understand patients' experience and also have motivation to achieve what they want, which lead to the success of this project.

After that, Christopher answered many of our questions in wiki. Beyond what he discussed before, he went on to discuss the challenges of obtaining FDA approval while maintaining an open-source approach. Due to the sensitive nature of public health, Tidepool must carefully manage their development process, relying on a rigorous system of testing, development, and quality assurance. The FDA demands secure data transmission and comprehensive documentation to ensure patient safety and effective oversight.

When I asked about the possibility of localizing and translating Tidepool for use outside the United States, Christopher acknowledged that the company's current size and resources limit their ability to expand into other countries. He noted that the complexities of the medical field require careful consideration of differing regulations across nations. However, I remain hopeful that Tidepool will continue to grow and find success in their efforts to improve healthcare solutions worldwide.

As for the group project, we successfully got one coding contribution and one translation contribution done this week. Both of these, being different from the previous ones, were done by our collaboration. So we're glad that finally we can work together in a group rather than fighting the individual combat. Right now, the biggest challenge that our group is facing is that, the issues that are suitable to be worked on are too difficult to find. We've spent a lot of time this week on it, but either the maintainer is still having discussion or the other contributor has submitted a pull request for it. I think the only thing we can to is just keep checking back for the issue regularly. The other difficulty is for translation. The ones that we can find are too long to translate on time before the end of semester. Therefore Shenghan and I decided to start to find more opportunities on Crowdin, especially the LeetCode-like training courses that require CS expertise -- we are indeed the experts! :D