---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - Journey into the Actual Open Source World
time: 4:33 p.m.
date: 2023-03-25
location: New York, NY
---

This week, our blog kicks off with an engaging talk by Jim Hall, a key maintainer of the FreeDOS project, on Monday. He delivered an in-depth presentation on the history of DOS, encompassing PC DOS, MS-DOS, GUI, and more. Impressively, Jim took the time to patiently address each of our questions and even followed up with a seven-paragraph text to answer a lingering inquiry from the chat after the session had concluded.

<!--more-->

During the meeting, I posed a question about the factors that have contributed to the longevity and success of the FreeDOS project, particularly in terms of long-term sustainability. In his response, Jim emphasized the importance of welcoming newcomers to the project. By providing guidance for all levels of experience, the FreeDOS community stays active and continually attracts fresh perspectives, aligning with the spirit of Open Source.

On Tuesday, I connected with Miya Liu, the FreeCodeCamp Language Lead for Chinese, for a late-night Zoom meeting. She provided a thorough overview of how to contribute to FreeCodeCamp's translation efforts. As a native Chinese speaker, I eagerly joined the team to help translate content for the localized community.

The excitement continued on Wednesday when I discovered a newly published `first timers only` issue on the FreeCodeCamp coding repository. Eager to contribute, I set everything else aside and focused on addressing the problem. Despite initial concerns about my ability to resolve the issue, I found it manageable and successfully fixed it locally after two hours of work. After coordinating with my teammates to obtain the necessary permissions, I submitted a [pull request](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/pull/49796) in accordance with FreeCodeCamp's guidelines.

During class, we celebrated this accomplishment, only to realize that our local environments were not functioning correctly. Despite there being no discernible difference between our main branch and the official FreeCodeCamp repository, errors persisted. We spent the entirety of the class and our group time afterward troubleshooting, but the issue resolved itself 15 minutes post-class. Although the cause remains a mystery, we were relieved to see the problem fixed.

Additionally, I dedicated two hours in the afternoon and evening to translating a FreeCodeCamp article, [How to Generate a Random Number within Certain a Range in JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/generate-random-number-within-a-range-in-javascript/), and subsequently submitted a [pull request](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/chinese/pull/1114).

By Thursday dawn, both of my pull requests were accepted!

I then commenced work on my next translation. The upcoming article is quite lengthy, and I gradually realized the task would be challenging. To ease the process, I decided to collaborate more closely with my teammate Shenahan, dividing the tasks between us. We hope to complete this assignment by the end of the week!