---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Lessons Learned and Project Progress
time: 4:47 p.m.
date: 2023-04-09
location: New Jersey, NJ
---

On Monday, we had a project report session, in which each group reported their progress, achievements, and thoughts in class. I learned a lot from others, including their workflow and some innovative ideas, such as how to select better issues to work on (filtering them through tags, sorting them by latest commented, etc.). The experiences from other groups really helped us improve ourselves.

<!--more-->

On Wednesday, we had a discussion about [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/). I read it before class and actively engaged in sharing ideas with other students. Among all the lessons learned from the article, I think the first one is my favorite:

> Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.

This lesson is really relevant to some of my own experiences.

When I apply for jobs online, many companies require me to write a cover letter for them. To be honest, every day I apply for several dozen job openings that match my background and skills, and my primary focus is on finding a suitable position rather than the specific company. Therefore, due to time and energy constraints, I don't have time to write a tailored cover letter for every single company. As this issue was scratching my personal itch, I developed a program that helps me write cover letters automatically based on the company's features.

Additionally, this week I watched videos and read articles about diabetes healthcare open-source projects, especially Tidepool Loop, in preparation for the invited speaker [Christopher Snider](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/). Among the materials, I learned that this project was "started by highly motivated members of the diabetes community looking to better their own lives or the lives of the people they care for." This means it was also their personal itches that motivated them to contribute to the project, and that's one of the reasons why this project is "revolutionary." This made me more impressed by the lesson 1.

After class on Wednesday, our project group had a regular online meeting. We collaborated, and Connor made his first pull request, which was immediately accepted by the community - the predicament of being stuck for weeks was broken! Then we found the next coding issue we plan to work on. At the same time, Shenghan and I continued working on the translation issue. After finishing writing this blog, I plan to complete my part of the translation by tonight.

Lastly, one thing worth mentioning is that I received a software engineering summer internship offer this Thursday! The collaboration and communication skills I gained from this OSSD class really helped me a lot! :D

That's it for the blog this week; see you next week ~
