---
layout: post
title: Week 13 -  Open Source Industry Insights and Our Group Project Journey
time: 00:39 p.m.
date: 2023-04-23
location: New York, NY
---


On Wednesday, we had an in-class discussion of open source within industry, which was quite enlightening. We touched on the various business models that have been built around open source projects, and how they provide value to both the creators and the users of these projects.

<!--more-->

I found it interesting that although open source is not a business model itself, there are so many successful companies building their businesses around open source projects. Some of the business models we discussed include support and services, advertisement partnerships, open core, and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). A particularly compelling example is RedHat, which was the first company to successfully make money around open source software. Additioanlly, I've searched online for uses of open source in different industries, and found another example "Apollo" for Autonomous Vehicles. It's developed by the company Baidu, but was made public on its open-source platform sharing the source code for models, algorithms and processes. In the reversing way, this will be integrated with cybersecurity defense strategy in the deployment for commercialization and productization. Baidu made the contribution to public and also gained giveback from the open source society. This is a win-win situation.

In class, one of the most fascinating concepts we discussed was InnerSource. I also searched online further after class about this concept. InnerSource involves adopting open source methodologies and principles within an organization's internal development processes, even if the software or project is not publicly released as open source. By implementing InnerSource, companies can create an environment that fosters collaboration, knowledge sharing, and innovation across different teams and departments. This can lead to improved code quality, faster development cycles, and more efficient use of resources.

Most importantly, InnerSource can be seen as a stepping stone for a company to adopt open source practices. Once a company becomes comfortable with the InnerSource approach and experiences its benefits, it may be more open to adopting open source practices more broadly, including contributing to and releasing open source projects externally. In this way, InnerSource can serve as a beginning for a company to fully embrace open source.

Due to the exceptional pain caused by my wisdom tooth (I did a urgent surgery to remove it at Friday morning), I didn't speak and participate much into the class discussion, and I feel sorry about that. But this discussion really helped me appreciate how open source has become an integral part of various industries and how it can contribute to the success of businesses that embrace it.

what are your biggest accomplishements? what are the failures? what are some surprises (good or bad) about your project?

Then let's talk about our group project. Just now when I have just start writing this part, I noticed that there's a first-timers-only issue opened today. Since Connor and I both have coding contributions to the project, Shenghan is the only "first-timer" so I contacted him immediately for this opportunity. He then started his work immediately. Good luck to him!

Until now, my biggest accomplishments are in the translation part. I've participated in 6 translation contributions accross both GitHub and Crowdin platform. Additionally, there's one "failure" worth mentioning - this was actually a surprise to our team. Two weeks ago, our group started working on an issue and created a pull request for it. Then it was denied by one maintainer. We communicated with the maintainer and got the feedback that "the final PR should not have dirty commits from collaborating on an organization fork". Then we switched to a personal GitHub account, made commit history clean, and created another pull request for this issue. We were happy that after resolving all those issues, the pull request was successfully accepted by more than two maintainers and got merged. However, several days later, another maintainer commented that the original issue should not be fixed this way since "we should not use specific negative tests". He also said that our PR didn't fully follow the workflow (there was no "help-wanted" tag for it, which was indeed our negligence). Another maintainer followed that comment and admited that it was actually their overlook that the previous issue never had "status: waiting triage," "status: discussing" or "status: blocked" labels which should have prevented a review. Additionally, he corrected our previous misunderstood, pointing out that "help-wanted" tag is just a recommendation for contributors to not waste their time, but without that tag, the issus is still open for contributing -- so our PR was indeed acceptable. However, after all those conversations, the maintainers finally decided to revert our change. Although this is kind of a sad story in the end, we still have had an interesting experience throughout this back-and-forth process.

That's it for this week. See you next week ~