---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - First Touch With Open Source
time: 22:35 p.m.
date: 2023-01-27
location: New York, NY
---

<!-- Address the following points in your post (keep in mind that your blog post should be just prose, not a Q&A for the prompts below)
open source (what do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? what are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source, why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?)
projects: briefly talk about four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past (note, the projects do not have to be source code based) (Keep in mind that these blogs are publicly available to anybody who stumbles upon them. Make sure that the posts are appropriate.) -->

This week is the start of the Spring 2023 semester at NYU, and I'm currently enrolled into the CS course Open Source Software Development. The first time I heard the term "Open Source", I was thinking about the pure openness to public of the code, which represents a selfless dedication to the development of the whole digital world. During the job seeking I also noticed that many of the company prefer applicants with open source experiences. Therefore I'm quite interested in this and want to know more about it.

<!--more-->

Now I've learnt some of the concept during this first week of class, I believe it can boost the trust (transparency) between all participants in the project. The user can trust the nature of the project since they can know everything behind the scene if they want. Additionally, it's open to collaboration, which is an advantage for rapidly further development.

However, on the other hand, I also noticed that open source project might be more complicated than normal ones and therefore may be harder to structure and maintain. Also, as all of the contents are open source, there might be some security issues.

In the past, I've used open source projects such as TensorFlow, PyTorch (I used these two for customizing a machine learning model training in a project), Node.js, and MongoDB (I used these two for creating a full-stack web application). However, I didn't know that they were open source till now. I really appreciate the work and contribution made by those selfless devotees, and I'd like to learn more about open source, then make my own contribution to the communities.